1. Connect an arbitrary antenna to the transmitter unit. Switch on the transmitter and set the frequency to
800 MHz. Keep the antenna in horizontal direction.

2. Connect a half wavelength dipole antenna to the stepper motor controller and turn the receiver ON. Keep
the antenna in horizontal direction. Verify that the received signal is of the same frequency as the
transmitted frequency. Avoid any parallax between the transmitting and receiving antennas.

3. Set the distance between the antennas to be around 1.5m. Remove any stray object from around the
antennas especially in the line of sight.

4. In case the stepper motor is not ON, press the stepper motor switch on the receiver front panel. The
message ‘stp’ appears on the display on the bottom right corner.

5. Press the capture antenna data array switch. Press Enter when prompted by message on the display.

6. Enter the array number as 1 or 2 and press ENTER. Input the step size for stepper motor as either 1 or 5
degrees. Move away from the set-up to avoid interference.

7. Once the stepper motor has stopped, press FUNC switch and select ‘6’ for switching to RS-232
communication. Once ENTER is presses. ‘SERIAL ENABLED’ message appears on the display.

8. Navigate to the PLOT-ITR software on the computer and ignore the warning message. Select COM
PORT 1 for RS232 communication. A pop-up with the message ‘Connected Sucessfully’ appears. Click
OK.

9. Go to the Display/Capture tab and collect data stored within the selected array. Save the file.

10. Use the display tab to view the radiation pattern as a polar plot on the screen. The radiation pattern
corresponds to the E plane pattern for receiving antenna.

11. Determine the half power beamwidth from the E plane pattern by positioning the red and green cursors
at the points where the power reduces by 3 dB from the maximum value.

12. Press ENTER once to reset the display at the receiver. Without disturbing the set up, rotate the dipole
antenna at the receiver from horizontal to vertical plane and repeat the above procedure to view the pattern
in the H plane